feat(runJob): document runjob manifest (#1351)
spinnaker/spinnaker.github.io: guides/user/kubernetes-v2/run-job-manifest/index.md

---
layout: single
title:  "Run Job (Manifest)"
sidebar:
  nav: guides
---

> The `Run Job (Manifest)` stage can be used to execute a Kubernetes Job as part of your pipeline. This stage will deploy a `Job` manifest and wait until it completes, allowing you to gate your pipeline's continuation on it's success or failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Run Job (Manifest)` stage can be used to execute a Kubernetes Job as part of your pipeline. This stage will deploy a `Job` manifest and wait until it completes, allowing you to gate your pipeline's continuation on the job's success or failure.
```

For example use cases, check out [this post](https://blog.spinnaker.io/extending-spinnaker-with-kubernetes-and-containers-5d16ec810d81) on the Spinnaker blog!

## Viewing execution logs

As with any job runner, logs are the primary form of feedback and it's important that viewing them is a first-class experience within Spinnaker. Since users of Spinnaker are all at various stages of Kubernetes adoption we've provided 2 ways to view logs within Spinnaker.

### Link to external system

> Most Kubernetes deployments will have some utility for forwarding logs from containers and into external systems for log analysis. If you're using one of these platforms, you can configure your Job with the annotation `jobs.spinnaker.io/logs` and a templated URL to your logging system. This value of this annotation will be used to render a link in the UI. 

Reviewer 2: I think you can lower-case "job" throughout, except in the stage name.

To make it easier to pinpoint the specific Job, the annotation value can be templated with values from the deployed Job manifest. To use templates, use `{{ templateKey }}` where `templateKey` is the path to the value you wish to use. The deployed manifest will be passed into the template as JSON. This functionality mirrors that of the [Annotation Driven UI](/guides/user/kubernetes-v2/annotations-ui/).

> For example, if your Job is deployed with name `myjob-12345`, the annotation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if your Job is deployed with name `myjob-12345`, the annotation...
```

```
jobs.spinnaker.io/logs: 'https://internal-logging/jobs/{{ metadata.name }}'
```

> will result in the value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
...will result in the value
```

```
https://internal-logging/jobs/myjob-12345
```

### Within Spinnaker

> You can still view the logs of your Job within Spinnaker even if your Kubernetes deployment doesn't forward them to an external system. In the absense of the `jobs.spinnaker.io/logs` annotation, Spinnaker will fetch the deployed manifest and display logs directly in the UI. These logs will only be available for a short period following the Job's completion because Kubernetes only stores events about object for a shot amount of time. If you'd like to view your logs for longer than this timeframe, it's recommended that you use a tool like [Fluentd]() to forward logs to a more persistent platform like Elasticsearch or Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can still view the logs of your Job within Spinnaker even if your Kubernetes deployment doesn't forward them to an external system. In the absense of the `jobs.spinnaker.io/logs` annotation, Spinnaker will fetch the deployed manifest and display logs directly in the UI. These logs will only be available for a short period following the Job's completion because Kubernetes only stores events about an object for a short amount of time. If you'd like to view your logs for longer than this timeframe, it's recommended that you use a tool like [Fluentd]() to forward logs to a more persistent platform like Elasticsearch or Datadog.
```

Reviewer: also, link to Fluentd?

Author: 🤦‍♂ i totally meant to.

> You can still view the logs of your Job within Spinnaker even if your Kubernetes deployment doesn't forward them to an external system. In the absense of the `jobs.spinnaker.io/logs` annotation, Spinnaker will fetch the deployed manifest and display logs directly in the UI. These logs will only be available for a short period following the Job's completion because Kubernetes only stores events about object for a shot amount of time. If you'd like to view your logs for longer than this timeframe, it's recommended that you use a tool like [Fluentd]() to forward logs to a more persistent platform like Elasticsearch or Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can still view the logs of your Job within Spinnaker even if your Kubernetes deployment doesn't forward them to an external system. In the absense of the `jobs.spinnaker.io/logs` annotation, Spinnaker fetches the deployed manifest and displays logs directly in the UI. These logs are only available for a short period following the Job's completion because Kubernetes only stores events about objects for a short time. If you'd like to view your logs for longer than this timeframe, it's recommended that you use a tool like [Fluentd]() to forward logs to a more persistent platform like Elasticsearch or Datadog.
```

## Capturing output

> In most cases, Jobs are meant to do some work and provide feedback in the form of an output, such as structured JSON. This output can then be used to influence downstream stages via [SPeL](/guides/user/pipeline/expressions). There are 2 ways of doing this with the `Run Job (Manifest)` stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, Jobs are meant to do some work and provide feedback in the form of an output, such as structured JSON. This output can then be used to influence downstream stages via [SpEL](/guides/user/pipeline/expressions). There are 2 ways of doing this with the `Run Job (Manifest)` stage.
```

> In most cases, Jobs are meant to do some work and provide feedback in the form of an output, such as structured JSON. This output can then be used to influence downstream stages via [SPeL](/guides/user/pipeline/expressions). There are 2 ways of doing this with the `Run Job (Manifest)` stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In most cases, Jobs are meant to do some work and provide feedback in the form of an output, such as structured JSON. This output can then be used to influence downstream stages via [SPeL](/guides/user/pipeline/expressions). There are 2 ways of doing this with the `Run Job (Manifest)` stage: [using logs](#logs) and [using artifacts](#artifacts).
```

### Logs

The easiest and most accessible way of capturing output from your Jobs is to output data to your logs by writing to `stdout`. When a Job completes, the log data is captured and analyzed for 2 different markers. These markers are as follows:

#### `SPINNAKER_PROPERTY_*`

`SPINNAKER_PROPERTY_*=*` can be used to provide single key/value pairs, similar to Jenkins `build.properties` files. Everything after `SPINNAKER_PROPERTY_` is captured as a key/value. For example, given the following log output

```
Checkout spinnaker/spinnaker source code...
Latest tag is: 1.1.0.
Tag spinnaker/spinnaker with next minor version...
Uploading release...
Release uploaded.

SPINNAKER_PROPERTY_RELEASE=1.1.1
SPINNAKER_PROPERTY_URL=https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker/releases/tag/1.1.1
```

the captured output would be in the following format

```
{
    "RELEASE": "1.1.1",
    "URL": "https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker/releases/tag/1.1.1"
}
```

#### `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON`

> `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` can be used to provide complex or structured data. In this case, anything following `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON=` is directly consumed and parsed as JSON. Using the previous example, notice how the output has changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` to provide complex or structured data. In this case, anything following `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON=` is directly consumed and parsed as JSON. Using the previous example, notice how the output has changed.
```

```
Checkout spinnaker/spinnaker source code...
Latest tag is: 1.1.0.
Tag spinnaker/spinnaker with next minor version...
Uploading release...
Release uploaded.

SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON={"RELEASE": "1.1.1", "URL": "https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker/releases/tag/1.1.1"}
```

> Again, using this format would result in the following format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Again, using this format would result in the following format:
```

```
{
    "RELEASE": "1.1.1",
    "URL": "https://github.com/spinnaker/spinnaker/releases/tag/1.1.1"
}
```

> If `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` is found multiple times within the log then each is parsed and added the resulting output. If multiple keys are the same, for example, the key `foo` is contained in multiple instances of `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` then the _last one_ wins. The results of multiple occurrences _are not merged_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` is found multiple times within the log then each is parsed and added to the resulting output. If multiple keys are the same, for example, the key `foo` is contained in multiple instances of `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` then the _last one_ wins. The results of multiple occurrences _are not merged_.
```

> If `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` is found multiple times within the log then each is parsed and added the resulting output. If multiple keys are the same, for example, the key `foo` is contained in multiple instances of `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` then the _last one_ wins. The results of multiple occurrences _are not merged_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON` is found multiple times within the log, then each is parsed and added to the resulting output. If multiple keys are the same, for example the key `foo` is contained in multiple instances of `SPINNAKER_CONFIG_JSON`, then the _last one_ wins. The results of multiple occurrences _are not merged_.
```

> _Note: Some Jobs output a massive amount of data which can be expensive to process. If your Job outputs megabytes or gigabytes of log data it may be best to utilize the artifact based approach outlined below._

Reviewer 2: Would it be better to put this note at the top of the log section?

### Artifacts

> [Artifacts](/reference/artifacts) are a mechanisim within Spinnaker that enables pipelines to reference resources stored in external systems. Artifacts can be anything - Docker images, Kubernetes manifests, and, in this case, data produced by the Run Job stage. As mentioned above, if your Job is producing so many logs that parsing them for output data would be an expensive operation, utilizing artifacts would be the best solution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Artifacts](/reference/artifacts) are a mechanisim within Spinnaker that enables pipelines to reference resources stored in external systems. Artifacts can be anything&mdash;Docker images, Kubernetes manifests, and in this case, data produced by the Run Job stage. As mentioned above, if your Job is producing so many logs that parsing them for output data would be an expensive operation, utilizing artifacts would be the best solution.
```

> In order to utilize artifacts to capture output data, your Job will need to push output to one of Spinnaker's [supported artifact stores](/reference/artifacts/types/overview). This output will be captured at the end of the Job execution and injected into the pipeline for use in downstream stages via SPeL. Artifacts captured as output must be in JSON format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to utilize artifacts to capture output data, your Job will need to push output to one of Spinnaker's [supported artifact stores](/reference/artifacts/types/overview). This output will be captured at the end of the Job execution and injected into the pipeline for use in downstream stages via SpEL. Artifacts captured as output must be in JSON format.
```

> In order to utilize artifacts to capture output data, your Job will need to push output to one of Spinnaker's [supported artifact stores](/reference/artifacts/types/overview). This output will be captured at the end of the Job execution and injected into the pipeline for use in downstream stages via SPeL. Artifacts captured as output must be in JSON format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to use artifacts to capture output data, your Job needs to push output to one of Spinnaker's [supported artifact stores](/reference/artifacts/types/overview). This output is captured at the end of the Job execution and injected into the pipeline for use in downstream stages via SPeL. Artifacts captured as output must be in JSON format.
```
